Adult ADHD: Are You An Idea Machine?
Creativity | Total Words: 607
FacebookTwitterShare
Chances are, if you have Adult ADHD, you’re an “idea machine”–you come up with great new ideas all the time, maybe several in a day!

Problem is, the ideas are often unrelated to what you already decided to work on, and so each new idea becomes a distraction that takes you further away from your larger goals. What can a person with Adult ADHD and too many good ideas do?

I have Adult ADHD myself, and I have 10 great ideas a day, minimum, that are “million-dollar ideas.” How do I actually implement one of them and get something done? I don’t want to just stop having great ideas. I love thinking about new ideas. Its one of the things I’m best at doing.

I say, “Okay, when I have a great idea, its my job to figure out how I can take whats really great about that idea, and apply it to what I’m working on–that is, working on ALREADY.” This is something every person with Adult ADHD needs to train themselves to do.

Here’s how it works:

Lets say I’m working on a website about Attention-Deficit Disorder. What happens if I have a great idea about a restaurant they should open up in my local town? I know it would be a great idea. Why don’t I just go out and open a restaurant?

Well, I don’t really want to open a restaurant. I’ve worked in a lot of restaurants, and I know that I don’t want to deal with the restaurant business. For one thing, it’s boring, and boredom kills people with Adult ADHD. But still, its a great idea.

So what I say to myself is, “Whats so great about this idea, and how can I apply the essence of whats so great about this idea to my Adult ADHD website?

Do you see how that works?

As people with Adult ADHD, we tend to think in an all-or-nothing, black-or-white kind of way: “Do I follow the entire idea and go open a restaurant or not?”

But what you really want to say, to make your Adult ADHD work for you, instead of against you is: “How can I apply this great new idea to the project I’m working on already?”

You train yourself to do this over time. You can even do it in conversations when you’re brainstorming with friends or business partners or whatever.

When random ideas come up, just say, “Hey, thats a really good idea. How do we apply that to what we’re working on? What makes that idea so good? Why am I so excited about that idea?”

In the case of the restaurant idea, the original idea was, “It would be great to have a Mexican Restaurant here because there isn’t one in town and everyone wants one.”

So, when I applied that concept to my current business, it became “What does everyone with Adult ADHD want that isn’t being given to them?” If I can come up with that, then I’m all set.

The point is, if you can use your Adult ADHD to figure out how to flip your ideas up and switch them around to be focused on your bigger goals, then you’re way ahead of people without Adult ADHD–because you have about 5 great new innovative ideas a day!

Just imagine how much progress you will make if you apply them to your main project every day, instead of getting distracted…you’ll be a powerhouse!

To find out more about how to turn your Adult ADHD distractions into advantages, like how to use multi-sensory stimulation to focus in on your projects, just see below.