High IQ: Change Your Eating Habits And Super Boost Your
Creativity | Total Words: 691
FacebookTwitterShare
High IQ: Change Your Eating Habits And Super Boost Your Intelligence Quotient

Do you feel heavy in your head when you walk around? Is your score in IQ tests too low? You may not feel as active or quick as early or you may be forgetting very commonly used words. This need not be the situation that cannot be dealt with. You can eat certain food items which will help boost your brainpower, clear up your brain and make you think at a quick pace.

Hence if you want to increase your intelligence level (and your IQ- your score in IQ tests) to the highest level read the information given below. It will help you clear up your brain and you will have great thinking power and ability to score higher in IQ tests. Your memory also depends on your eating habits.

Fish Oil

“Fish is a food for your brain” is an old belief. But nowadays fish is very polluted with mercuy and dangerous substances, so I will not recommend fish for consumption. Instead, I suggest to eat fish oil. It has fats which contain DocasaHexanenoic Acid and is beneficial for the brain and acts as a protective layer.

A majority of our brain is made up of fat and that fat is either DocasaHexanenoic Acid or Arachidonic acid. Arachidonic acid is found in unprocessed dairy products like butter and DocasaHexanenoic Acid is found only in fish and not in any other plant or vegetation.

It is very important to use a fish oil which is exceptionally good and has good reputation. I have done research and have clinical with patients, which shows the following trends.

1. Liquid form of fish oil is far better than capsules.
2. Not all brands are good
3. Carlson’s brand is the best and purest of all existing brands today.

It may not be the only brand that is exceptionally good, but till now I have come across many and have found that carlson’s brand is the best as far as fish or cod liver oil is concerned. You can find this brand at Mercola.com or at any health store near your house.

Vegetables

Nothing can ever match the nutritions that pure vegetables can provide us. Alzheimer’s has been known to occur because of deficiency of folic acid (green vegetables are very rich with it). Similarly, there are many other elements, antioxidants and phytochemicals that vegetables provide us with and can help us in keeping our brains sharp.

The easiest way to eat enough of vegetables is to prepare vegetable juice on a regular basis.

But the type of your metabolism is a key factor to decide what all you need to consume. For example, if you are a protein metabolic type, you need not eat vegetables. You can have half of what is usually recommended. That is for a protein type adult, one can eat half a pound of vegetable and this will be sufficient.

If you are a protein type of guy your diet should consist of low potassium vegetables like beans. Lettuces and the usual diet like collard greens have high potassium content and may cause biochemical imbalance. Also, if you have a metabolic type you also don’t need much vegetable juice consumption. A carbohydrate metabolic type wil beneft if he consumes more vegetables like collard greens, kale, Swiss chard etc. These are very much not suggested for the protein types.

I do recommend organic food if you want to get the most nutritious input, but if you cannot afford to buy them, don’t give up eating vegetables altogether. Eating vegetables in any form, organic or not is good and better not have them in your ration at all.

Raw Eggs

The best source for high quality nutrition is raw whole egg. It is also very much affordable by all. It is especially for those who are protein deficient. You may face some difficulty initially to eat them, but you will greatly improve your health, if you eat raw egg. Boiled or cooked eggs will not result in the same, so the lesser you cook the egg the more nutrition you will consume.